What We Know We Don&#39;t Know: Empirical Software Engineering Skip to Content Blog Projects Talks Consulting About Newsletter Learn TLA&#43; New: Logic for Programmers is now content-complete and in the hands of the copy editor! Get the current beta for 20% off here . Hillel Wayne What We Know We Don&#39;t Know: Empirical Software Engineering Contact via Email Open Github account in new tab Posted on Nov 04, 2022 Empirical Software Engineering is the study of what actually works in programming. Instead of trusting our instincts we collect data, run studies, and peer-review our results. This talk is all about how we empirically find the facts in software and some of the challenges we face, with a particular focus on software defects and productivity. Talk doesn&rsquo;t seem to be online yet; in the meantime, you can see a recording of an older version of the talk here . Slides are here . Sources I referenced a bunch of papers in my talk. These are links so you can read them yourself: Intro Big Data is slower than laptops Scalability! But at what COST? Why we care Section references The German Tech Sector The Pragmatics of TDD TDD is dead. Long live testing. Methods Controlled Trials Comparing syntax highlightings and their effects on code comprehension Natural Experiments Simple Testing Can Prevent Most Critical Failures Observational Studies Towards the Creation of Interspecies Digital Games: An Observational Study on Cats&rsquo; Interest in Interactive Technologies Errata : In the talk I said it studied &ldquo;cats on keyboards&rdquo;, but the paper was actually on cats on tablets (digital projections). Software Developers&rsquo; perspectives on productivity Defects Programming Language Effects A Large Scale Study of Programming Languages and Code Quality in Github (original faulty study) On the Impact of Programming Languages on Code Quality (replication study) My 6,000 word writeup of the whole fiasco Code Review Best Kept Secrets of Peer Code Review An Empirical Study of the Impact of Modern Code Review Practices on Software Quality First Come First Served: The Impact of File Position on Code Review Modern Code Review: A Case Study at Google Human Factors Crunch Makes Games Worse STRESS&hellip;At Work Impact of a Night of Sleep Deprivation on Novice Developers Performance Sleep deprivation: Impact on cognitive performance Scheduled Overtime Effect On Construction Projects Overtime and Extended Work Shifts Additional Sources Recommended Reading Teaching tech together Leprechauns of Software Engineering The Programmer&rsquo;s Brain Free research Making Software It Will Never Work In Theory ACM digital library ArXiv Previous Previous post: A Brief Introduction to Esoteric Languages Next post: Is Software Engineering Real Engineering? Next Contact via Email Open Github account in new tab Newsletter (Article updates & weekly+ essays) Powered by Buttondown. &copy; 2026 Hillel Wayne